# What IS a Microservice?

Microservices are often described in literature [[1]](https://martinfowler.com/articles/microservices.html) as a style of architecting applications as a collection of small services, each running in its own process, communicating with lightweight mechanisms over HTTP.

A good microservice is:

- Simple.
- Owned by a small team.
- Loosely coupled.
- Independently deployable.
- Highly maintainable and testable.
- Organized around business capabilities.

Another aspect that these principles imply is that microservices are a way to achieve componentization using services, and distributed (Web) technologies. This goal is a very important in Lithium for several reasons.

In summary, microservices are probably a good solution if:

- Its features can be shared between several applications.
- Its features integrate with third-party microservices.
- It is important to retrieve insights of its usage.
- Managing access to its features in a centralized is important.
- It is expected that its features will evolve frequently.

Since Lithium microservices are developed and managed in the context of a software factory, some rules should be observed to standardize them. These are:

- A Lithium microservice should be designed with the Lithium SDK to promote code generation and increase velocity.
- The microservice should have a REST Web API, otherwise it is not a microservice.
- The Web API should be versioned to reduce friction and dependency issues in the consumers.
- The Web API should include authentication and authorization using Identity Server.
- The microservice should include telemetry to gather insights about its usage, errors, etc.
- Microservices should use standard public cloud resources as much as possible and avoid the use of SQL databases and services alike typically used in monolithic architectures.
- Each service should be consume, preferentially, via a client library (C#), generated by the SDK, to promote is correct usage.

## Next

[What IS NOT a Microservice?](2-what-is-not-a-microservice.md)
