howto/howto-migration-to-lithium-2.0/01-configure-nuget.md, before:

# How to Upgrade a Microservice from Lithium v1.0 to Lithium v2.0

## 1 - Configure NuGet in the Service Solution

### Package Sources

Open the folder that contains the microservice solution in Windows Explorer.

Edit `nuget.config` and make sure it contains only the following package sources (apart from those that are specific to the service):

```xml
<packageSources>
    <add key="Lithium" value="http://nuget.primaverabss.com:82/nuget/public-lithium-general" />
    <add key="NuGet" value="https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json" protocolVersion="3" />
</packageSources>
```

### Disable Source Control Integration

Create a folder named `.nuget` (mind the dot) and create there a file named `nuget.config` with the following contents:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<configuration>
    <solution>
        <add key="disableSourceControlIntegration" value="true" />
    </solution>
</configuration>
```

Open the service solution in Visual Studio.

Add a solution folder named `.nuget` (mind the dot) and the previous file to it.

## Next

[2 - Configure the Projects in the Service Solution](./02-configure-projects.md)

Commit message:

Update how to upgrade to SDK 2.0

howto/howto-migration-to-lithium-2.0/01-configure-nuget.md, after:

# How to Upgrade a Microservice from Lithium v1.0 to Lithium v2.0

## 1 - Configure NuGet in the Service Solution

### Package Sources

Open the folder that contains the microservice solution in Windows Explorer.

Edit `nuget.config` and make sure it contains only the following package sources (apart from those that are specific to the service):

```xml
<packageSources>
    <add key="Lithium" value="http://nuget.primaverabss.com:82/nuget/public-lithium-general" />
    <add key="NuGet" value="https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json" protocolVersion="3" />
</packageSources>
```

### Disable Source Control Integration

Create a folder named `.nuget` (mind the dot) and create there a file named `nuget.config` with the following contents:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<configuration>
    <solution>
        <add key="disableSourceControlIntegration" value="true" />
    </solution>
</configuration>
```

Open the service solution in Visual Studio.

> For the time being, ignore any warning to upgrade the solution and to update the Hydrogen dependencies.

Add a solution folder named `.nuget` (mind the dot) and the previous file to it.

## Next

[2 - Configure the Projects in the Service Solution](./02-configure-projects.md)
