# How to Upgrade a Microservice from Lithium v1.0 to Lithium v2.0

## 4.1 - Update Versioning

Since you are upgrading the microservice only to support a new version of the Lithium Framework, it is supposed that you do not add any new feature to the service or change any of its features.

This implies that you want to end up with a new version of the service - e.g. version 2.0 - that should be completely compatible with the previous version - e.g. version 1.0. This means that the service Web API should be exactly equal to the previous version, except for its default version.

Given the way versioning works in the Lithium Framework, you want to end up with a new version of the service that supports both versions in the API (the new and the previous).

Supporting two versions in the API is CRITICAL to ensure that client applications will still be able to use the service, regardless of whether they use the old version of the client library or invoke the API directly.

> You could keep the service version unchanged in theory but, since there is a major upgrade of .NET Core, Hydrogen, etc., it would be a bad idea. Changing the major version of the service ensures that client applications using the service will be required to make a decision on how and when to upgrade.

### Service Version

Increase the service version (e.g. 1.0 to 2.0) and ensure that the version property is specified exactly in the form `[Major].[Minor]`.

> The new version will be used as the default API version and to set the version of all the service assemblies (see `AssemblyInfo.gen.cs`).

### Backward Compatibility

Using the design context menu, add a new "API Version" model element. Set the version property of this new model element to the previous version of the service (e.g. 1.0).

> This ensures that the Web API will support both versions, the old and the new.

## Next

[4.2 - Update Background Services](./04.2-update-service-model-background-services.md)