howto/README.md, before:

# How To...

This chapter includes "how to" guides to help developing microservices with the Lithium Framework.

> The guides without link are not yet available. If you want to suggest new guides, please use the Issues section.

## Development environment

- [How to **setup the development environment** to use the Lithium Framework](./howto-setup-devopment-environment.md)

## Creating microservices

- [How to **create a new microservice** in Visual Studio](./howto-create-new-microservice.md)
- [How to create a **microservice that does not require a client library**](./howto-create-microservice-without-clientlib.md)
- [How to create a **client library for an existing Web API** (not developed with Lithium)](./howto-create-clientlib-only.md)
- [How to **organize the source code** of a microservice](./howto-organize-source-code.md)

## Modeling a microservice

- [How to model a **Hello World microservice**](./howto-model-hello-world.md)
- [How to **add complex models** to microservices](./howto-add-complex-models.md)
- [How to **define complex actions** on microservices](./howto-add-complex-actions.md)
- [How to **define validation rules** on microservices models and actions parameters](./howto-define-validation-rules.md)
- [How to **specify documentation** on a microservice](./howto-specify-documentation.md)
- How to **setup authorization** in a microservice

## Adding custom code to a microservice

- [How is **code generated** for a microservice](./howto-generated-code.md)
- [How to **add custom code** to a microservice](./howto-add-custom-code.md)
- [How to **add custom application settings**](./howto-add-custom-appsettings.md)

## Adding basic features to a micro service

- [How to add **support for distributed caching** to a microservice](./howto-add-distributed-cache.md)
- [How to add **support for Table Storage** to a microservice](./howto-add-table-storage.md)
- [How to add **support for Blob Storage** to a microservice](./howto-add-blob-storage.md)
- [How to **add a background service** to a microservice](./howto-add-background-service.md)
- How to **add pipelines** to a microservice

### Adding advanced features to a micro service

- How to **setup authentication** in a microservice
- [How to **add support for ASP.NET MVC user interface** to a microservice](./howto-add-user-interface-mvc.md)
- [How to **add support for Angular user interface** to a microservice](./howto-add-user-interface-ngx.md)
- How to **add data protection** in a microservice
- [How to **include a taskbox** in a microservice](./howto-include-taskbox.md)

## Testing a microservice

- [How to **create unit tests** for a microservice](./howto-create-unit-tests.md)
- [How to **create integration tests** for a microservice](./howto-create-integration-tests.md)

## Upgrading a microservice

- [How to **upgrade a microservice from Lithium v1.0 to Lithium v2.0**](./howto-migration-to-lithium-2.0/README.md)

## Specific features in a specific microservice

- [How to **subscribe new notifications events** in **PNS**](./howto-subscribe-new-notifications-events.md)

Commit message:

Add howto publish and subscribe events in eventbus

howto/README.md, after:

# How To...

This chapter includes "how to" guides to help developing microservices with the Lithium Framework.

> The guides without link are not yet available. If you want to suggest new guides, please use the Issues section.

## Development environment

- [How to **setup the development environment** to use the Lithium Framework](./howto-setup-devopment-environment.md)

## Creating microservices

- [How to **create a new microservice** in Visual Studio](./howto-create-new-microservice.md)
- [How to create a **microservice that does not require a client library**](./howto-create-microservice-without-clientlib.md)
- [How to create a **client library for an existing Web API** (not developed with Lithium)](./howto-create-clientlib-only.md)
- [How to **organize the source code** of a microservice](./howto-organize-source-code.md)

## Modeling a microservice

- [How to model a **Hello World microservice**](./howto-model-hello-world.md)
- [How to **add complex models** to microservices](./howto-add-complex-models.md)
- [How to **define complex actions** on microservices](./howto-add-complex-actions.md)
- [How to **define validation rules** on microservices models and actions parameters](./howto-define-validation-rules.md)
- [How to **specify documentation** on a microservice](./howto-specify-documentation.md)
- How to **setup authorization** in a microservice

## Adding custom code to a microservice

- [How is **code generated** for a microservice](./howto-generated-code.md)
- [How to **add custom code** to a microservice](./howto-add-custom-code.md)
- [How to **add custom application settings**](./howto-add-custom-appsettings.md)

## Adding basic features to a micro service

- [How to add **support for distributed caching** to a microservice](./howto-add-distributed-cache.md)
- [How to add **support for Table Storage** to a microservice](./howto-add-table-storage.md)
- [How to add **support for Blob Storage** to a microservice](./howto-add-blob-storage.md)
- [How to **add a background service** to a microservice](./howto-add-background-service.md)
- How to **add pipelines** to a microservice
- [How to **subscribe events from eventbus** on a microservice](./howto-subscribe-events-from-eventbus.md)
- [How to **publish events to eventbus** on a microservice](./howto-publish-events-to-eventbus.md)

### Adding advanced features to a micro service

- How to **setup authentication** in a microservice
- [How to **add support for ASP.NET MVC user interface** to a microservice](./howto-add-user-interface-mvc.md)
- [How to **add support for Angular user interface** to a microservice](./howto-add-user-interface-ngx.md)
- How to **add data protection** in a microservice
- [How to **include a taskbox** in a microservice](./howto-include-taskbox.md)

## Testing a microservice

- [How to **create unit tests** for a microservice](./howto-create-unit-tests.md)
- [How to **create integration tests** for a microservice](./howto-create-integration-tests.md)

## Upgrading a microservice

- [How to **upgrade a microservice from Lithium v1.0 to Lithium v2.0**](./howto-migration-to-lithium-2.0/README.md)
